Qiskit 1.0 feature migration guide (#768)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/api/migration-guides/qiskit-1.0-features.mdx

  been removed in Qiskit 1.0.  This is due to Qiskit Aer removing its
  simulation functionality for such jobs.  For low-level Hamiltonian-simulation
  workloads, consider using a specialized library such as [Qiskit
  Dynamics](https://qiskit-extensions.github.io/qiskit-dynamics/).

<span id="qiskit.pulse"></span>
## qiskit.pulse

<span id="ParametricPulse"></span>
### ParametricPulse

The `qiskit.pulse.library.parametric_pulses.ParametricPulse` base class and
pulse library have been superseded by `qiskit.pulse.SymbolicPulse` and the
corresponding pulse library. `SymbolicPulse` provides better performance,
flexibility, and [QPY](../qiskit/qpy) support:

Deprecated                       |   Alternative
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
[`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.ParametricPulse`](/api/qiskit/0.46/qiskit.pulse) | [`qiskit.pulse.SymbolicPulse`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.SymbolicPulse)
[`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Constant`](/api/qiskit/0.46/qiskit.pulse) |  ?
[`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Drag`](/api/qiskit/0.46/qiskit.pulse) |  ?
[`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Gaussian`](/api/qiskit/0.46/qiskit.pulse) |  ?

> [`qiskit.pulse.library.parametric_pulses.GaussianSquare`](/api/qiskit/0.46/qiskit.pulse) |  ?

Author: Unfortunately I don't have the time to look up concrete examples or paths for the alternatives. If we want to merge this as an MVP, I suggest leaving the table out (maybe turn it into a list) and adding it in a follow-up.

with pulse.build() as only_pulse_scheds:
    pulse.call(sched)
```

Similarly, a `QuantumCircuit` can be injected in the builder context by
manually transpiling and scheduling the object.

```python
from math import pi
from qiskit.compiler import schedule, transpile
qc = QuatumCircuit(2)
qc.rz(pi/2, 0)
qc.sx(0)
qc.rz(pi/2, 0)
qc.cx(0, 1)
qc_t = transpile(qc, backend)
sched = schedule(qc_t, backend)
with pulse.build() as only_pulse_scheds:
    pulse.call(sched)
```

We recommend writing a minimum pulse program with the builder
and attach it to `QuantumCircuit` through the `QuantumCircuit.add_calibration`
method as a microcode of a gate instruction, rather than writing the entire
program with the pulse model.

<span id="builder.build"></span>
### builder.build

The following arguments in `qiskit.pulse.builder.build` have been removed:

* `default_transpiler_settings`
* `default_circuit_scheduler_settings`

Together with the functions:

* `qiskit.pulse.builder.active_transpiler_settings`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.active_circuit_scheduler_settings`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.transpiler_settings`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.circuit_scheduler_settings`

> The alternative is ?

Author: Same comment as above, we can maybe look for the alternatives in a follow-up.

Reviewer: No alternative is provided because it's no longer possible to inject circuit object into the builder context and these are the setting for converting injected object into pulse representation behind the scene.

* [`DiagonalGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.DiagonalGate)
* [`HamiltonianGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.HamiltonianGate)
* [`Initialize`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.Initialize)
* [`Isometry`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.Isometry)
* `qiskit.circuit.library.generalized_gates.mcg_up_diag.MCGupDiag`
* [`UCGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCGate)
* [`UCPauliRotGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCPauliRotGate)
* [`UCRXGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRXGate)
* [`UCRYGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRYGate)
* [`UCRZGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRZGate)
* [`UnitaryGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UnitaryGate)

The following classes have been removed from the codebase, as their
functionality was either redundant or linked to the `extensions` module:

Deprecated                       |   Alternative
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
[`SingleQubitUnitary`](/api/qiskit/0.46/qiskit.extensions.SingleQubitUnitary)    |  [`qiskit.circuit.library.UnitaryGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UnitaryGate)

> [`Snapshot`](/api/qiskit/0.46/qiskit.extensions.Snapshot)             |  use qiskit-aer's save instructions

Author: Is there a way that we can link to the qiskit-aer API docs? (not essential but might be good to add in a follow-up)

Reviewer 2: Good idea, yes we can definitely do that

Reviewer 2: Done in 75b20c10557e32f56c16f4b99246de6371df5552

---
title: Qiskit 1.0 feature migration guide
description: Adapt to feature changes with Qiskit 1.0
---

# Qiskit 1.0 feature changes

> This guide shows migration paths for the most important feature changes in Qiskit&reg;  1.0, organized by module.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide describes migration paths for the most important feature changes in Qiskit&reg;  1.0, organized by module.
```

> Use the navigation bar on the right-hand side to navigate to the module you are interested in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the table of contents on the right side to navigate to the module you are interested in.
```

<span id="qiskit.global"></span>
## Global instances and functions

<span id="Aer"></span>
### Aer

> The `qiskit.Aer` object is no longer available in Qiskit 1.0. Instead, use the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `qiskit.Aer` object is not available in Qiskit 1.0. Instead, use the
```

same object from the `qiskit_aer` namespace, which is a drop-in replacement.
To install `qiskit_aer`, run:

```bash
pip install qiskit-aer
```

<span id="BasicAer"></span>
### BasicAer

> The `qiskit.BasicAer` object is no longer available in Qiskit 1.0. See the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `qiskit.BasicAer` object is not available in Qiskit 1.0. See the
```

[`basicaer` migration section](#providers.basicaer) for

> more information on migration options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 migration options.
```

<span id="execute"></span>
### execute

> The `qiskit.execute` function is no longer available in Qiskit 1.0. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `qiskit.execute` function is not available in Qiskit 1.0. This
```

function served as a high-level wrapper around the
[`transpile`](/api/qiskit/compiler#transpile) and

> [`run`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2#run) functionalities in Qiskit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`run`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2#run) functions in Qiskit.
```

Instead of `qiskit.execute`, use the
[`transpile`](/api/qiskit/compiler#transpile) function followed by
[`backend.run()`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2#run).

```python
# Legacy path
from qiskit import execute

job = execute(circuit, backend)

# New path
from qiskit import transpile

new_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend)
job = backend.run(new_circuit)
```

Alternatively, the [`Sampler`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.Sampler)
primitive is semantically equivalent to the removed `qiskit.execute`
function. The class
[`BackendSampler`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.BackendSampler) is a
generic wrapper for backends that do not support primitives:

```python
from qiskit.primitives import BackendSampler

sampler = BackendSampler(backend)
job = sampler.run(circuit)
```

<span id="qiskit.circuit"></span>
## qiskit.circuit

<span id="QuantumCircuit.qasm"></span>
### QuantumCircuit.qasm

The `QuantumCircuit.qasm` method has been removed. Instead, use
[`qasm2.dump`](/api/qiskit/qasm2#dump) or
[`qasm2.dumps`](/api/qiskit/qasm2#dumps).

> For pygments-formatted output, look at the standalone

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For Pygments-formatted output, look at the standalone
```

[`openqasm-pygments`](https://pypi.org/project/openqasm-pygments/) package,

> as `qasm2.dump` and `qasm2.dumps` do not provide pygments colored output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
as `qasm2.dump` and `qasm2.dumps` do not provide Pygments-colored output.
```

| `QuantumCircuit.hamiltonian` | [`HamiltonianGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.HamiltonianGate)    |
| `QuantumCircuit.isometry`    | [`Isometry`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.Isometry)           |
| `QuantumCircuit.iso`         | [`Isometry`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.Isometry)           |
| `QuantumCircuit.uc`          | [`UCGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCGate)               |
| `QuantumCircuit.ucrx`        | [`UCRXGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRXGate)           |
| `QuantumCircuit.ucry`        | [`UCRYGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRYGate)           |
| `QuantumCircuit.ucrz`        | [`UCRZGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRZGate)           |

For example, for a [`DiagonalGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.DiagonalGate):

```python
from qiskit.circuit import QuantumCircuit
from qiskit.circuit.library import DiagonalGate  # new location in the circuit library

circuit = QuantumCircuit(2)
circuit.h([0, 1])  # some initial state

gate = DiagonalGate([1, -1, -1, 1])
qubits = [0, 1]  # qubit indices on which to apply the gate
circuit.append(gate, qubits)  # apply the gate
```

> The following two `QuantumCircuit` methods have also been removed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following `QuantumCircuit` methods have also been removed:
```

| `QuantumCircuit.bind_parameters` | [`QuantumCircuit.assign_parameters`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit#assign_parameters) |
| `QuantumCircuit.snapshot`        | `qiskit-aer`'s [save instructions](https://qiskit.org/ecosystem/aer/apidocs/circuit.html#saving-simulator-data) |

<span id="qiskit.converters"></span>
## qiskit.converters

The `qiskit.converters.ast_to_dag` function has been removed from Qiskit. It converted the
abstract syntax tree generated by the legacy OpenQASM 2 parser to a
[`DAGCircuit`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.dagcircuit.DAGCircuit). As the legacy
OpenQASM 2 parser has been removed (see [qiskit.qasm](#qiskit.qasm)), this
function no longer serves a purpose. Instead, parse your OpenQASM 2 files into
a `QuantumCircuit` using the
[`QuantumCircuit.from_qasm_file`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit#from_qasm_file)
or
[`QuantumCircuit.from_qasm_str`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit#from_qasm_str)
constructor methods (or the [`qiskit.qasm2`](/api/qiskit/qasm2) module), then
convert that `QuantumCircuit` into a
[`DAGCircuit`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.dagcircuit.DAGCircuit) with
[`circuit_to_dag`](/api/qiskit/converters#circuit_to_dag).

```python

> # Old

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Previous
```

from qiskit.converters import ast_to_dag
from qiskit.qasm import Qasm

dag = ast_to_dag(Qasm(filename="myfile.qasm").parse())

> # Alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Current alternative
```

import qiskit.qasm2
from qiskit.converters import circuit_to_dag

dag = circuit_to_dag(qiskit.qasm2.load("myfile.qasm"))
```

<span id="qiskit.extensions"></span>
## qiskit.extensions

The `qiskit.extensions` module is no longer available. Most of its objects have been
integrated into the circuit library
([`qiskit.circuit.library`](/api/qiskit/circuit_library)). To migrate to the
new location, simply replace `qiskit.extensions` with `qiskit.circuit.library`
in the object import path. This is a drop-in replacement.

```python

> # Old

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Previous
```

from qiskit.extensions import DiagonalGate

> # Alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Current alternative
```

from qiskit.circuit.library import DiagonalGate
```

The classes moved to [`qiskit.circuit.library`](/api/qiskit/circuit_library) are:

* [`DiagonalGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.DiagonalGate)
* [`HamiltonianGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.HamiltonianGate)
* [`Initialize`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.Initialize)
* [`Isometry`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.Isometry)
* `qiskit.circuit.library.generalized_gates.mcg_up_diag.MCGupDiag`
* [`UCGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCGate)
* [`UCPauliRotGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCPauliRotGate)
* [`UCRXGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRXGate)
* [`UCRYGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRYGate)
* [`UCRZGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRZGate)
* [`UnitaryGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UnitaryGate)

The following classes have been removed from the codebase, as their

> functionality was either redundant or linked to the `extensions` module:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
functions were either redundant or linked to the `extensions` module:
```

Removed                          |   Alternative
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
`SingleQubitUnitary`    |  [`qiskit.circuit.library.UnitaryGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UnitaryGate)
`Snapshot`             |  Use `qiskit-aer`'s [save instructions](https://qiskit.org/ecosystem/aer/apidocs/circuit.html#saving-simulator-data)
`ExtensionError` | A relevant error class

<span id="qiskit.primitives"></span>
## qiskit.primitives

The most notable change in the [`qiskit.primitives`](/api/qiskit/primitives) module is the

> introduction of the new **primitives V2 interface**. This section will show how to migrate your

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
introduction of the new **primitives V2 interface**. This section shows how to migrate your
```

workflow from primitives V1 to primitives V2, as well as the few changes that have taken place
in the inputs accepted by the V1 interface.

<Admonition type="note">

> From the 1.0 release onwards, we will refer to the pre-1.0 primitives interface as "primitives V1".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with the 1.0 release, we will refer to the pre-1.0 primitives interface as "primitives V1".
```

</Admonition>

<span id="migrate-to-v2"></span>
### Migrate from V1 to V2

The formal distinction between the primitives V1 and V2 APIs are the base classes from which
primitives implementations inherit. To transition to the new base classes, you can maintain
the original import path from `qiskit.primitives`:

Migrate from                     |   Replace with
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
`BaseEstimator`         |  [`BaseEstimatorV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimatorV2)
`BaseSampler`             |  [`BaseSamplerV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.BaseSamplerV2)

> As for the qiskit core implementations of the V2 primitives (those importable from `qiskit.primitives`),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The names of the qiskit core implementations of the V2 primitives (those importable from `qiskit.primitives`),
```

> the names have been modified to clarify their purpose as implementations that can be run locally

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
have been modified to clarify their purpose as implementations that can be run locally
```

with a statevector simulator backend. The new names **do not include the -V2 suffix**.

Migrate from                     |   Replace with
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
`qiskit.primitives.Estimator`         |  [`qiskit.primitives.StatevectorEstimator`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.StatevectorEstimator)
`qiskit.primitives.Sampler`             |  [`qiskit.primitives.StatevectorSampler`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.StatevectorSampler)

> At a conceptual level, there are some notable differences to keep in mind when migrating from V1 to V2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are some conceptual differences to think about when migrating from V1 to V2.
```

These differences are dictated by the base class, but are shown in the following examples using the statevector
implementations found in `qiskit.primitives`:

<Admonition type="note">
For the following examples, assume the following imports and primitive intializations:

```python
from qiskit.primitives import (
    Sampler,
    StatevectorSampler,
    Estimator,
    StatevectorEstimator,
)

estimator_v1 = Estimator()
sampler_v1 = Sampler()
estimator_v2 = StatevectorEstimator()
sampler_v2 = StatevectorSampler()

> # define circuits, observables and param. values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# define circuits, observables and parameter values
```

```
</Admonition>

1. `Sampler and Estimator`: The new V2 primitives are designed to accept **vectorized inputs**, where single circuits can be grouped with array-valued specifications. That is, one circuit can be executed

>   for arrays of `n` parameter sets and/or `n` observables (in the case of the estimator). Each group is called a **primitive unified bloc (pub)**, and can be represented as a tuple: `(1 x circuit, [n x observables], [n x parameters])`. The V1 interface didn't allow for the same flexibility, as there number of input circuits had to match the number of observables and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  for arrays of `n` parameter sets, `n` observables, or both (in the case of the estimator). Each group is called a **primitive unified bloc (pub)**, and can be represented as a tuple: `(1 x circuit, [n x observables], [n x parameters])`. The V1 interface didn't allow for the same flexibility.  Instead, the number of input circuits had to match the number of observables and
```

      job = estimator_v2.run([(circuit, [obs1, obs2, obs3, obs4])])
      evs = job.result()[0].data.evs
      ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="s-1-3" label="Sampler, 1 circuit, 3 parameter sets" default>
      ```python
      # executing 1 circuit with 3 parameter sets using Sampler V1
      job = sampler_v1.run([circuit] * 3, [vals1, vals2, vals3])
      dists = job.result().quasi_dists

      # executing 1 circuit with 3 parameter sets using Sampler V2
      job = sampler_v2.run([(circuit, [vals1, vals2, vals3])])
      counts = job.result()[0].data.meas.get_counts()
      ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="e-1-4-2" label="Estimator, 1 circuit, 4 observables, 2 parameter sets" default>
      ```python
      # executing 1 circuit with 4 observables and 2 parameter sets using Estimator V1
      job = estimator_v1.run([circuit] * 8, [obs1, obs2, obs3, obs4] * 2, [vals1, vals2] * 4)
      evs = job.result().values

      # executing 1 circuit with 4 observables and 2 parameter sets using Estimator V2
      job = estimator_v2.run([(circuit, [[obs1, obs2, obs3, obs4]], [[vals1], [vals2]])])
      evs = job.result()[0].data.evs
      ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

>   V2 primitives accept multiple pubs as inputs, and each pub gets its own result. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  V2 primitives accept multiple PUBs as inputs, and each pub gets its own result. This
```

>   allows for executing different circuits with different parameter/observable combinations,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  lets you run different circuits with various parameter/observable combinations,
```

>   something not always possible in the V1 interface:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  which was not always possible in the V1 interface:
```

      job = sampler_v1.run([circuit1, circuit2], [vals1] * 2)
      dists = job.result().quasi_dists

      # executing 2 circuits with 1 parameter set using Sampler V2
      job = sampler_v2.run([(circuit1, vals1), (circuit2, vals1)])
      counts1 = job.result()[0].data.meas.get_counts()  # result for pub 1 (circuit 1)
      counts2 = job.result()[1].data.meas.get_counts()  # result for pub 2 (circuit 2)
      ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="e-2-2" label="Estimator, 2 circuits, 2 different observables" default>
      ```python
      # executing 2 circuits with different observables
      # is not possible using Estimator V1

      # executing 2 circuits with 2 different observables using Estimator V2
      job = estimator_v2.run([(circuit1, obs1), (circuit2, obs2)])
      evs1 = job.result()[0].data.evs  # result for pub 1 (circuit 1)
      evs2 = job.result()[1].data.evs  # result for pub 2 (circuit 2)
      ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. [`Sampler`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.BaseSamplerV2): The V2 sampler now
   returns measurement outcome samples in the form of **bitstrings** or
   **counts**, instead of the quasi-probability distributions from the V1

>    interface. The bitstrings show the measurement outcomes preserving the shot

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   interface. The bitstrings show the measurement outcomes, preserving the shot
```

   order in which they were measured. The V2 sampler result objects organize
   data in terms of their input circuits' classical register names, for
   compatibility with dynamic circuits.

    ```python
    # Define quantum circuit with 2 qubits
    circuit = QuantumCircuit(2)
    circuit.h(0)
    circuit.cx(0, 1)
    circuit.measure_all()
    circuit.draw()
    ```
    ```text
            ┌───┐      ░ ┌─┐
       q_0: ┤ H ├──■───░─┤M├───
            └───┘┌─┴─┐ ░ └╥┘┌─┐
       q_1: ─────┤ X ├─░──╫─┤M├
                 └───┘ ░  ║ └╥┘
    meas: 2/══════════════╩══╩═
                          0  1
    ```
    <Admonition type="caution" title="Default classical register name">

>     You can notice in the circuit above that the name of the classical register defaults to `"meas"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In the circuit above, notice that the name of the classical register defaults to `"meas"`.
```

    This name will be used later to access the measurement bitstrings.
    </Admonition>

    ```python
    # Run using V1 sampler
    result = sampler_v1.run(circuit).result()
    quasi_dist = result.quasi_dists[0]
    print(f"The quasi-probability distribution is: {quasi_dist}")
    ```
    ```text
    The quasi-probability distribution is: {0: 0.5, 3: 0.5}
    ```
    ```python
    # Run using V2 sampler
    result = sampler_v2.run([circuit]).result()
    # Access result data for pub 0
    data_pub = result[0].data
    # Access bitstring for the classical register "meas"
    bitstring = data_pub.meas.get_bitstring()
    print(f"The bitstring shape is: {bitstring.shape}")
    # Get counts for the classical register "meas"
    counts = data_pub.meas.get_counts()
    print(f"The counts are: {counts}")
    ```
    ```text
    The bitstring shape is: (1024, 1)
    The counts are: {'00': 523, '11': 501}
    ```

3. `Sampler and Estimator`: The sampling overhead, commonly exposed by V1 implementations

>   through the `shots` run option, is now an argument of the `run()` method of the primitives

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  through the `shots` run option, is now an argument of the primitives `run()` method 
```

>   that can be specified at the **pub** level.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  that can be specified at the **PUB** level.
```

>   Differently to the V1 API, the base classes now expose the arguments in different formats:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The V2 base classes expose the arguments in formats different from the V1 API:
```

    * [`BaseSamplerV2.run`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.BaseSamplerV2#run)

>       exposes a `shots` argument (similarly to the old workflow):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      exposes a `shots` argument (similar to the previous workflow):
```

        ```python
        # Sample two circuits at 128 shots each.
        sampler_v2.run([circuit1, circuit2], shots=128)
        # Sample two circuits at different amounts of shots. The "None"s are necessary
        # as placeholders
        # for the lack of parameter values in this example.
        sampler_v2.run([(circuit1, None, 123), (circuit2, None, 456)])
        ```

    * [`EstimatorV2.run`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.BaseEstimatorV2#run)
      introduces a `precision` argument that specifies the error bars that the
      primitive implementation should target for expectation values estimates:
        ```python

>         # Estimate expectation values for two pubs, both with 0.05 precision.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        # Estimate expectation values for two PUBs, both with 0.05 precision.
```

        estimator_v2.run([(circuit1, obs_array1), (circuit2, obs_array_2)], precision=0.05)
        ```

<span id="v1-changes"></span>
### Updates in the V1 interface

* Implicit conversion from a dense `BaseOperator` to a
  [`SparsePauliOp`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.SparsePauliOp) in
  [`Estimator`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.Estimator) observable arguments
  is no longer allowed. You should explicitly convert to a `SparsePauliOp`

>   using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
by using
```

  [`SparsePauliOp.from_operator(operator)`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.SparsePauliOp#from_operator)
  instead.

* Using a [`PauliList`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.PauliList) in
  `Estimator` observable arguments is no longer allowed. Instead you should

>   explicitly convert the argument using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  explicitly convert the argument by using
```

  [`SparsePauliOp(pauli_list)`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.SparsePauliOp)
  first.

<span id="qiskit.providers"></span>
## qiskit.providers

<span id="providers.basicaer"></span>
### basicaer

Most of the functionality in the `qiskit.providers.basicaer` module has been
replaced with the new
[`qiskit.providers.basic_provider`](/api/qiskit/providers_basic_provider)
module, except for the `UnitarySimulatorPy` and `StatevectorSimulatorPy`
classes which have been removed; their functionality was already contained in
the [`quantum_info`](/api/qiskit/quantum_info) module.

> The migration to the new paths should be straightforward. You can replace most

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The migration to the new paths is straightforward. You can replace most
```

Reviewer 2: Gotta have that self-confidence

classes in `qiskit.providers.basicaer` with their
[`qiskit.providers.basic_provider`](/api/qiskit/providers_basic_provider)

> counterpart (drop-in replacement). Note that the following classes have not

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
counterpart (drop-in replacement). Note that the following classes have 
```

> only changed paths, but also changed names:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
new paths and names:
```

Removed                          | Alternative
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
`qiskit.providers.basicaer`                            |  [`qiskit.providers.basic_provider`](/api/qiskit/providers_basic_provider)
`BasicAerProvider`             |  [`BasicProvider`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.basic_provider.BasicProvider)
`BasicAerJob`                       |  [`BasicProviderJob`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.basic_provider.BasicProviderJob)
`QasmSimulatorPy`               |  [`BasicSimulator`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.basic_provider.BasicSimulator)

<Admonition type="caution" title="Global instances">
    Be aware of any global instances when migrating to the new module. There is no replacement for
    the `BasicAer` global instance that could be directly imported as `qiskit.BasicAer`. This means that

>     it will **not** be valid to do `from qiskit import BasicProvider`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     `from qiskit import BasicProvider` is no longer a valid import.
```

    Instead, the provider class must be imported from its submodule and instantiated by the user:

    ```python

>     # Old

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Previous
```

    from qiskit import BasicAer
    backend = BasicAer.get_backend("backend_name")

>     # Alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Current
```

    from qiskit.providers.basic_provider import BasicProvider
    backend = BasicProvider().get_backend("backend_name")
    ```
</Admonition>

As for the unitary and statevector simulators, they can be replaced with
different [`quantum_info`](/api/qiskit/quantum_info) classes. This is not a
drop-in replacement, but the changes are minimal, see the following migration
examples:

Removed                          |   Alternative
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
`UnitarySimulatorPy`         |  [`quantum_info.Operator`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.Operator)
`StatevectorSimulatorPy` |  [`quantum_info.Statevector`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.Statevector)

The following examples show the migration paths of the three simulators in `basicaer`.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="statevec" label="Statevector simulator" default>
    ```python
    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

    qc = QuantumCircuit(3)
    qc.h(0)
    qc.h(1)
    qc.cx(1, 2)
    qc.measure_all()

    # Old
    from qiskit import BasicAer
    backend = BasicAer.get_backend("statevector_simulator")
    statevector = backend.run(qc).result().get_statevector()

>     # Alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Current
```

    qc.remove_final_measurements()  # no measurements allowed
    from qiskit.quantum_info import Statevector
    statevector = Statevector(qc)
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="unitary" label="Unitary simulator">
    ```python
    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
    qc = QuantumCircuit(3)
    qc.h(0)
    qc.h(1)
    qc.cx(1, 2)
    qc.measure_all()

    # Old
    from qiskit import BasicAer
    backend = BasicAer.get_backend("unitary_simulator")
    result = backend.run(qc).result()

>     # Alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Current
```

    qc.remove_final_measurements()  # no measurements allowed
    from qiskit.quantum_info import Operator
    result = Operator(qc).data
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="qasm" label="QASM simulator">
    ```python
    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
    qc = QuantumCircuit(3)
    qc.h(0)
    qc.h(1)
    qc.cx(1, 2)
    qc.measure_all()

>     # Old

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Previous
```

    from qiskit import BasicAer
    backend = BasicAer.get_backend("qasm_simulator")
    result = backend.run(qc).result()

>     # Alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # One current option
```

    from qiskit.providers.basic_provider import BasicProvider
    backend = BasicProvider().get_backend("basic_simulator")
    result = backend.run(qc).result()

>     # or, directly

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Another current option is to specify it directly
```

    from qiskit.providers.basic_provider import BasicSimulator
    backend = BasicSimulator()
    result = backend.run(qc).result()
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

<span id="fake-backends-runtime"></span>
### fake_provider

> Most of the user-facing components of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most of the user-facing 
```

> `qiskit.providers.fake_provider` have

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`qiskit.providers.fake_provider` components have
```

been migrated to the `qiskit-ibm-runtime` Python package. This includes the
fake provider classes, all of the device-specific fake backends (such as

> `FakeVigo`, `FakeNairobiV2`, `FakeSherbrooke` and so on), and the fake backend

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`FakeVigo`, `FakeNairobiV2`, and `FakeSherbrooke`), and the fake backend
```

base classes. Click through the following tabs to see the affected classes.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="backends" label="Fake Backends" default>
      * Any class in `qiskit.providers.fake_provider.backends`
      * `fake_provider.fake_backend.FakeBackend`
      * `fake_provider.fake_backend.FakeBackendV2`
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="providers" label="Fake Providers">
      * `fake_provider.FakeProvider`
      * `fake_provider.FakeProviderForBackendV2`
      * `fake_provider.FakeProviderFactory`
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

To migrate to the new path:

> 1. Install a version of `qiskit-ibm-runtime` higher than `0.17.1`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install `qiskit-ibm-runtime` `0.17.1` or later:
```

Reviewer 3: The original text says "higher than", but the code says >= , so I went with .17.1 or later.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "greater"?

   ```bash
   pip install 'qiskit-ibm-runtime>=0.17.1'
   ```

2. Replace instances of `qiskit.providers.fake_provider` in your code with
   `qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider`. For example:

    ```python
    # Old
    from qiskit.providers.fake_provider import FakeProvider
    backend1 = FakeProvider().get_backend("fake_ourense")

    from qiskit.providers.fake_provider import FakeSherbrooke
    backend2 = FakeSherbrooke()

    # Alternative
    from qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider import FakeProvider
    backend1 = FakeProvider().get_backend("fake_ourense")

    from qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider import FakeSherbrooke
    backend2 = FakeSherbrooke()
    ```

> The fake backend base classes have also been migrated, but show some differences in the import path:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The fake backend base classes have also been migrated, but have some differences in the import path:
```

    These include the following `BackendV1` classes (drop-in replacements):

    * [`qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake5QV1`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake5QV1)
    * [`qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake20QV1`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake20QV1)
    * [`qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake7QPulseV1`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake7QPulseV1)
    * [`qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake27QPulseV1`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake27QPulseV1)
    * [`qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake127QPulseV1`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.Fake127QPulseV1)

    This is a configurable class that returns `BackendV2` instances:

    * [`qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2)
</Admonition>

<span id="fake_provider-special-testing-backends"></span>
### fake_provider (special testing backends)

The fake backend classes for special testing purposes in
`qiskit.providers.fake_provider` have
**not** been migrated to `qiskit_ibm_runtime.fake_provider`. The recommended

> migration path consists of using the new

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
migration path is to use the new
```

[`GenericBackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2)

> class to configure a backend with similar properties or building a custom

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
class to configure a backend with similar properties or to build a custom
```

target.

Removed                          |   Alternative
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
`fake_provider.FakeBackendV2` | [`fake_provider.GenericBackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2)
`fake_provider.FakeBackend5QV2` | [`fake_provider.GenericBackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2)
`fake_provider.FakeBackendV2LegacyQubitProps` | [`fake_provider.GenericBackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2)
`fake_provider.FakeBackendSimple` | [`fake_provider.GenericBackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2)
`fake_provider.ConfigurableFakeBackend` | [`fake_provider.GenericBackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2)

> Migration example to the new

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Example: Migrate to the new
```

[`GenericBackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.fake_provider.GenericBackendV2)
class:

```python
# Legacy path
from qiskit.providers.fake_provider import FakeBackend5QV2
backend = FakeBackend5QV2()

# New path
from qiskit.providers.fake_provider import GenericBackendV2
backend = GenericBackendV2(num_qubits=5)

> # note that this class will generate 5q backend with generic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Note that this class generates a 5q backend with generic
```

# properties that serves the same purpose as FakeBackend5QV2
# but will not be identical.
```

<span id="other-migration-tips"></span>
### Other migration tips

* Importing from `qiskit.providers.aer` is no longer possible. Instead, import
  from `qiskit_aer`, which is a drop-in replacement. To install `qiskit_aer`,
  run:

    ```bash
    pip install qiskit-aer
    ```

* Support for running pulse jobs on backends from
  [`qiskit.providers.fake_provider`](/api/qiskit/providers_fake_provider) has

>   been removed in Qiskit 1.0.  This is due to Qiskit Aer removing its

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  been removed in Qiskit 1.0.  This is because Qiskit Aer removed its
```

[QPY](/api/qiskit/qpy) serialization:

```python
from qiskit import pulse, qpy

with pulse.build() as schedule:
    pulse.play(pulse.Gaussian(100, 0.1, 25), pulse.DriveChannel(0))

with open('schedule.qpy', 'wb') as fd:
    qpy.dump(schedule, fd)
```

Removed                          |   Alternative
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.ParametricPulse` | [`qiskit.pulse.SymbolicPulse`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.SymbolicPulse)
`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Constant` |  [`pulse.library.symbolic_pulses.Constant`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Constant_class.rst)
`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Drag` |  [`pulse.library.symbolic_pulses.Drag`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Drag_class.rst)
`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Gaussian` |  [`pulse.library.symbolic_pulses.Gaussian`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Gaussian_class.rst)
`qiskit.pulse.library.parametric_pulses.GaussianSquare` |  [`pulse.library.symbolic_pulses.GaussianSquare`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.GaussianSquare)

<span id="complex-val-amp"></span>
### Complex-valued amplitude

> Complex-valued pulse amplitude (`amp`) is replaced with a (`amp`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Complex-valued pulse amplitude (`amp`) is replaced by an (`amp`,
```

[`qiskit.pulse.builder.call`](/api/qiskit/pulse#call) is no longer possible.
This removal affects input arguments of type `QuantumCircuit` as well as the
following functions:

* `qiskit.pulse.builder.call_gate`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.cx`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.u1`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.u2`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.u3`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.x`

If you still want to inject backend-calibrated schedules, use the following
pattern instead of calling gate commands.

```python
from qiskit.providers.fake_provider import GenericBackendV2
from qiskit import pulse

backend = GenericBackendV2(num_qubits=5)
sched = backend.target["x"][(qubit,)].calibration

with pulse.build() as only_pulse_scheds:
    pulse.call(sched)
```

Similarly, a [`QuantumCircuit`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit) can
be injected in the builder context by manually transpiling and scheduling the
object.

```python
from math import pi
from qiskit.compiler import schedule, transpile

qc = QuatumCircuit(2)
qc.rz(pi / 2, 0)
qc.sx(0)
qc.rz(pi / 2, 0)
qc.cx(0, 1)
qc_t = transpile(qc, backend)
sched = schedule(qc_t, backend)
with pulse.build() as only_pulse_scheds:
    pulse.call(sched)
```

> We recommend writing a minimum pulse program with the builder and attach it to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We recommend writing a minimum pulse program with the builder and attaching it to
```

`QuantumCircuit` through the
[`QuantumCircuit.add_calibration`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit#add_calibration)
method as a microcode of a gate instruction, rather than writing the entire
program with the pulse model.

<span id="builder.build"></span>
### builder.build

The following arguments in `qiskit.pulse.builder.build` have been removed with
no alternative.

* `default_transpiler_settings`
* `default_circuit_scheduler_settings`

> Together with the functions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These functions have also been removed:
```

* `qiskit.pulse.builder.active_transpiler_settings`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.active_circuit_scheduler_settings`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.transpiler_settings`
* `qiskit.pulse.builder.circuit_scheduler_settings`

This is because it's no longer possible to inject circuit objects into the
builder context (see [Injecting circuit gate
operations](#injecting-circuit-gate-operations)); these settings were for
converting injected objects into pulse representations.

<span id="pulse.library"></span>
### library

> The discrete pulse library has been removed from the codebase. This includes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The discrete pulse library has been removed from the code base. This includes:
```

* `qiskit.pulse.library.constant`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.zero`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.square`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.sawtooth`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.triangle`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.cos`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.sin`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.gaussian`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.gaussian_deriv`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.sech`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.sech_deriv`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.gaussian_square`
* `qiskit.pulse.library.drag`

Instead, use the corresponding
[`qiskit.pulse.SymbolicPulse`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.SymbolicPulse),
with
[`SymbolicPulse.get_waveform()`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.SymbolicPulse#get_waveform).
For example, instead of `pulse.gaussian(100,0.5,10)`, use
`pulse.Gaussian(100,0.5,10).get_waveform()`. Note that the phase of both
[`Sawtooth`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Sawtooth_class.rst) and
[`Square`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Square_fun.rst) is defined such
that a phase of `2\\pi` shifts by a full cycle, contrary to the discrete

> counterpart. Also note that complex amplitude support is no longer supported in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
counterpart. Also note that complex amplitude is no longer supported in
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
counterpart. Also note that complex amplitudes are no longer supported in
```

the symbolic pulse library; use `float`, `amp`, and  `angle` instead.

<span id="ScalableSymbolicPulse"></span>
### ScalableSymbolicPulse

It is no longer possible to load library `qiskit.pulse.ScalableSymbolicPulse`

> objects with complex `amp` parameter from qpy files of version 5 or lower

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
objects with a complex `amp` parameter from version 5 or earlier qpy files 
```

(Qiskit Terra < 0.23.0). No migration action is required, as complex `amp` will

> be automatically converted to `float` (`amp`, `angle`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
automatically be converted to `float` (`amp`, `angle`).
```

> The change applies to the pulses:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This change applies to these pulses:
```

* [`qiskit.pulse.Constant`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Constant_class.rst)
* [`qiskit.pulse.Drag`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Drag_class.rst)
* [`qiskit.pulse.Gaussian`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Gaussian_class.rst)
* [`qiskit.pulse.GaussianSquare`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.GaussianSquare)

<span id="qiskit.qasm"></span>
## qiskit.qasm

> The legacy OpenQASM 2 parser module previously present in `qiskit.qasm` has

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The legacy OpenQASM 2 parser module previously in `qiskit.qasm` has
```

been superseded by the [`qiskit.qasm2`](/api/qiskit/qasm2) module, which

> provides a faster and more correct parser for OpenQASM 2. The high level

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
provides a faster and more accurate parser for OpenQASM 2. The high level
```

`QuantumCircuit` methods
[`from_qasm_file()`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit#from_qasm_file)
and
[`from_qasm_str()`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit#from_qasm_str)
remain the same, but will use the new parser internally. However, the public
interface for the `qasm2` module is not the same. While the `qiskit.qasm`
module provided an interface to an abstract syntax tree returned by the `ply`
parser library, `qiskit.qasm2` does not expose the AST or any lower level
implementation details about the parser. It instead takes OpenQASM 2 input and
outputs a [`QuantumCircuit`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit) object.

> For example, if you were previously running something like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if you were previously running something like this:
```

```python
import qiskit.qasm
from qiskit.converters import ast_to_dag, dag_to_circuit

ast = qiskit.qasm.Qasm(filename="myfile.qasm").parse()
dag = ast_to_dag(ast)
qasm_circ = dag_to_circuit(dag)
```

> replace it with:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Replace it with the following:
```

```python
import qiskit.qasm2

qasm_circ = qiskit.qasm2.load("myfile.qasm")
```

<span id="qiskit.quantum_info"></span>
## qiskit.quantum_info

> The `qiskit.quantum_info.synthesis` module has been migrated to different

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `qiskit.quantum_info.synthesis` module has been migrated to various
```

locations in the codebase, mostly [`qiskit.synthesis`](/api/qiskit/synthesis).

Removed    | Alternative
-----------|------------
`OneQubitEulerDecomposer` | [`qiskit.synthesis.one_qubit.OneQubitEulerDecomposer`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.synthesis.OneQubitEulerDecomposer)
`TwoQubitBasisDecomposer` | [`qiskit.synthesis.two_qubits.TwoQubitBasisDecomposer`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.synthesis.TwoQubitBasisDecomposer)
`XXDecomposer` | [`qiskit.synthesis.two_qubits.XXDecomposer`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.synthesis.XXDecomposer)
`two_qubit_cnot_decompose` | [`qiskit.synthesis.two_qubits.two_qubit_cnot_decompose`](/api/qiskit/synthesis#qiskit.synthesis.two_qubit_cnot_decompose)
`Quaternion` | [`qiskit.quantum_info.Quaternion`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.Quaternion)

This move has not affected the usual import path of `Quaternion`, but you can no longer access
it through `qiskit.quantum_info.synthesis`.

Finally, `cnot_rxx_decompose` has been removed.

<span id="qiskit.test"></span>
## qiskit.test

The `qiskit.test` module is no longer a public module.  This was never intended to be public,

> nor to be used outside of Qiskit's own test suite.  All functionality was specific to Qiskit and no

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
nor to be used outside of the  Qiskit test suite.  All functionality was specific to Qiskit and no
```

alternative is provided; if you needed similar functionality, you should include it in your own
test harnesses.

<span id="qiskit.tools"></span>
## qiskit.tools

The `qiskit.tools` module was removed in Qiskit 1.0. Most of this functionality was
either replaced by similar functionality in other packages or removed with no alternative.
The primary exception is the `qiskit.tools.parallel_map()` function, which has been relocated to
the [`qiskit.utils`](/api/qiskit/utils#parallel_map) module. It can be used
from this new location instead. For example:

If you were previously running:

```python

> # Old

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Previous
```

from qiskit.tools import parallel_map

parallel_map(func, input)

> # Alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Current
```

from qiskit.utils import parallel_map

parallel_map(func, input)
```

<span id="jupyter"></span>
### jupyter

The `qiskit.tools.jupyter` submodule has been removed because the functionality
in this module is tied to the legacy `qiskit-ibmq-provider` package, which is no
longer supported. It also only supported `BackendV1` and not the newer
[`BackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2) interface. For
similar functionality, see
[`qiskit-ibm-provider.ibm_jupyter`](/api/qiskit-ibm-provider/ibm_jupyter).

<span id="monitor"></span>
### monitor

The `qiskit.tools.monitor` submodule has been removed as it was tied to the
legacy `qiskit-ibmq-provider` package, which is no longer supported (it also
only supported `BackendV1` interface and not the newer
[`BackendV2`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2) interface). There is
no alternative provided for this functionality.

<span id="visualization"></span>
### visualization

The `qiskit.tools.visualization` submodule has been removed. This module was a

> legacy redirect from the original location of Qiskit's visualization module and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
legacy redirect from the original location of the Qiskit visualization module and
```

was moved to [`qiskit.visualization`](/api/qiskit/visualization) in Qiskit
0.8.0. If you're still using this path, update your imports from
`qiskit.tools.visualization` to
[`qiskit.visualization`](/api/qiskit/visualization).

```python

> # Old

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Previous
```

from qiskit.tools.visualization import plot_histogram

plot_histogram(counts)

> # Alternative

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Current
```

## qiskit.transpiler

<span id="synthesis"></span>
### synthesis

The items in `qiskit.transpiler.synthesis` module have been migrated to new locations:

Removed    | Alternative
-----------|------------
`qiskit.transpiler.synthesis.aqc` (except for [`AQCSynthesisPlugin`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.transpiler.passes.AQCSynthesisPlugin)) | [`qiskit.synthesis.unitary.aqc`](/api/qiskit/synthesis_aqc)
`qiskit.transpiler.synthesis.graysynth` | [`qiskit.synthesis.synth_cnot_phase_aam`](/api/qiskit/synthesis#synth_cnot_phase_aam)
`qiskit.transpiler.synthesis.cnot_synth` | [`qiskit.synthesis.synth_cnot_count_full_pmh`](/api/qiskit/synthesis#synth_cnot_count_full_pmh)

<span id="transpiler.passes"></span>
### passes

The `NoiseAdaptiveLayout` transpiler pass has been superseded by
[`VF2Layout`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.transpiler.passes.VF2Layout) and
[`VF2PostLayout`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.transpiler.passes.VF2PostLayout),
which set a layout based on the reported noise characteristics of a
backend. Both the pass and the corresponding `"noise_adaptive"` layout stage
plugin have been removed from Qiskit.

The `CrosstalkAdaptiveSchedule` transpiler pass has been removed from the

> codebase. This pass was no longer usable because its internal operation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
code base. This pass was no longer usable because its internal operation
```

was dependent on custom properties being set in the `BackendProperties` payload
of a `BackendV1` instance. As no backends are setting these fields, the pass has
been removed.

<span id="passmanager"></span>
### passmanager

The `append` methods of the

> [`ConditionalController`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.passmanager.ConditionalController)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`ConditionalController`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.passmanager.ConditionalController),
```

> [`FlowControllerLinear`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.passmanager.FlowControllerLinear)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`FlowControllerLinear`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.passmanager.FlowControllerLinear), and 
```

### Aer

The `qiskit.Aer` object is no longer available in Qiskit 1.0. Instead, use the
same object from the `qiskit_aer` namespace, which is a drop-in replacement.
To install `qiskit_aer`, run:

```bash
pip install qiskit-aer
```

<span id="BasicAer"></span>
### BasicAer

The `qiskit.BasicAer` object is no longer available in Qiskit 1.0. See the
[`basicaer` migration section](#providers-basicaer) for
more information on migration options.

<span id="execute"></span>
### execute

The `qiskit.execute` function is no longer available in Qiskit 1.0. This
function served as a high-level wrapper around the
[`transpile`](/api/qiskit/compiler#transpile) and
[`run`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2#run) functionalities in Qiskit.
Instead of `qiskit.execute`, use the
[`transpile`](/api/qiskit/compiler#transpile) function followed by
[`backend.run()`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.providers.BackendV2#run).

```python
# Legacy path
from qiskit import execute

job = execute(circuit, backend)

# New path
from qiskit import transpile

new_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend)
job = backend.run(new_circuit)
```

Alternatively, the [`Sampler`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.Sampler)

> primitive is semantically equivalent to the deprecated `qiskit.execute`

Author: ```suggestion
primitive is semantically equivalent to the removed `qiskit.execute`
```

| `QuantumCircuit.hamiltonian` | [`HamiltonianGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.HamiltonianGate)    |
| `QuantumCircuit.isometry`    | [`Isometry`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.Isometry)           |
| `QuantumCircuit.iso`         | [`Isometry`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.Isometry)           |
| `QuantumCircuit.uc`          | [`UCGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCGate)               |
| `QuantumCircuit.ucrx`        | [`UCRXGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRXGate)           |
| `QuantumCircuit.ucry`        | [`UCRYGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRYGate)           |
| `QuantumCircuit.ucrz`        | [`UCRZGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.UCRZGate)           |

For example, for a [`DiagonalGate`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.library.DiagonalGate):

```python
from qiskit.circuit import QuantumCircuit
from qiskit.circuit.library import DiagonalGate  # new location in the circuit library

circuit = QuantumCircuit(2)
circuit.h([0, 1])  # some initial state

gate = DiagonalGate([1, -1, -1, 1])
qubits = [0, 1]  # qubit indices on which to apply the gate
circuit.append(gate, qubits)  # apply the gate
```

> The following two `QuantumCircuit` methods are also deprecated.

Author: ```suggestion
The following two `QuantumCircuit` methods have also been removed:
```

| Deprecated                       | Alternative |
|----------------------------------|-------------|
| `QuantumCircuit.bind_parameters` | [`QuantumCircuit.assign_parameters`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit#assign_parameters) |
| `QuantumCircuit.snapshot`        | `qiskit-aer`'s [save instructions](https://qiskit.org/ecosystem/aer/apidocs/circuit.html#saving-simulator-data) |

<span id="qiskit.converters"></span>
## qiskit.converters

> The `qiskit.converters.ast_to_dag` function is deprecated. It converted the

Author: ```suggestion
The `qiskit.converters.ast_to_dag` function has been removed from Qiskit. It converted the
```

  ```
* The `qiskit.BasicAer` object is no longer available in Qiskit 1.0. See the
  [`basicaer migration section`](#migrate-from-basicaer-to-basic_provider) for more
  information on migration options.

* The `qiskit.execute` function is no longer available in Qiskit 1.0.
  This function served as a high-level wrapper around the transpile and run functionalities
  in Qiskit. Instead of `qiskit.execute`, you can explicitly use the `transpile` function
  (with appropriate transpile options) followed by `backend.run()`
  (with appropriate run options).

  Migration example:

  ```python
  # Legacy path
  from qiskit import execute
  job = execute(circuit, backend)

  # New path
  from qiskit import transpile
  new_circuit = transpile(circuit, backend)
  job = backend.run(new_circuit)
  ```

  Alternatively, the `Sampler` primitive is semantically equivalent to the
  deprecated `qiskit.execute` function. The class `BackendSampler`
  is a generic wrapper for backends that do not support primitives:

  ```python
  from qiskit.primitives import BackendSampler
  sampler = BackendSampler(backend)
  job = sampler.run(circuit)
  ```

<span id="qiskit.circuit"></span>

> ## Changes to `qiskit.circuit`

Reviewer 4: Would you also like to mention the removal of the duplicated gate methods?

    * ``QuantumCircuit.cnot``, instead use :meth:`.QuantumCircuit.cx`,
    * ``QuantumCircuit.toffoli``, instead use :meth:`.QuantumCircuit.ccx`,
    * ``QuantumCircuit.fredkin``, instead use :meth:`.QuantumCircuit.cswap`,
    * ``QuantumCircuit.mct``, instead use :meth:`.QuantumCircuit.mcx`,
    * ``QuantumCircuit.i``, instead use :meth:`.QuantumCircuit.id`.

  method to generate pygments formatted output you should instead look at the standalone
  ``openqasm-pygments`` package to provide this functionality (as :func:`.qasm2.dump`
  and :func:`.qasm2.dumps` do not provide pygments colored output).

<span id="qiskit.converters"></span>
## Changes to `qiskit.converters`

* The ``qiskit.converters.ast_to_dag`` function has been deprecated and
  will be removed in the Qiskit 1.0.0 release. It previously was used to
  convert the abstract syntax tree generated by the legacy OpenQASM 2 parser
  (in the :mod:`qiskit.qasm` module which has been deprecated) and convert
  that directly to a :class:`.DAGCircuit`. As the legacy OpenQASM 2 parser
  has been deprecated this function will no longer serves a purpose after the
  legacy parser is removed. If you were previously using this, you can
  instead parse your OpenQASM 2 files into a :class:`.QuantumCircuit` using
  the :meth:`.QuantumCircuit.from_qasm_file` or
  :meth:`.QuantumCircuit.from_qasm_str` constructor methods and then
  converting that :class:`.QuantumCircuit` into a :class:`.DAGCircuit`
  with :func:`.circuit_to_dag`.

<span id="qiskit.extensions"></span>

> ## Changes to `qiskit.extensions`

Reviewer 4: This also misses the removal of

    * ``SingleQubitUnitary`` (instead use :class:`.library.UnitaryGate`),
    * ``Snapshot`` (superseded by Qiskit Aer's save instructions),
    * ``ExtensionError``,

> * The :mod:`qiskit.extensions` module is now deprecated. It had been pending deprecation since the Qiskit 0.45 release.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The :mod:`qiskit.extensions` module is no longer available. 
```

  Most objects have been moved to :mod:`qiskit.circuit.library`, including:
  * :class:`~.library.DiagonalGate`,
  * :class:`~.library.HamiltonianGateGate`,
  * :class:`~.library.Initialize`,
  * :class:`~.library.Isometry`,
  * :class:`~.library.generalized_gates.mcg_up_diag.MCGupDiag`,
  * :class:`~.library.UCGate`,
  * :class:`~.library.UCPauliRotGate`,
  * :class:`~.library.UCRXGate`,
  * :class:`~.library.UCRYGate`,
  * :class:`~.library.UCRZGate`,
  * :class:`~.library.UnitaryGate`.

>   With the deprecation of the objects, the following circuit methods have also been deprecated:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The following circuit methods have also been removed:
```

  * ``QuantumCircuit.diagonal``,
  * ``QuantumCircuit.hamiltonian``,
  * ``QuantumCircuit.isometry`` and ``QuantumCircuit.iso``,
  * ``QuantumCircuit.uc``,
  * ``QuantumCircuit.ucrx``,
  * ``QuantumCircuit.ucry``,

>   * ``QuantumCircuit.ucrz``.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * ``QuantumCircuit.ucrz``.

Instead, these gates can be applied to a circuit by using :meth:`.QuantumCircuit.append`.
For example, for a :class`.DiagonalGate`, we have::

    from qiskit.circuit import QuantumCircuit
    from qiskit.circuit.library import DiagonalGate  # new location in the circuit library

    circuit = QuantumCircuit(2)
    circuit.h([0, 1])  # some initial state

    gate = DiagonalGate([1, -1, -1, 1])
    qubits = [0, 1]  # qubit indices on which to apply the gate
    circuit.append(gate, qubits)  # apply the gate

```

<span id="v1-changes"></span>
### Updates in the V1 interface

* Implicit conversion from a dense `BaseOperator` to a
  [`SparsePauliOp`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.SparsePauliOp) in
  [`Estimator`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.primitives.Estimator) observable arguments
  is no longer allowed. You should explicitly convert to a `SparsePauliOp`
  using
  [`SparsePauliOp.from_operator(operator)`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.SparsePauliOp#from_operator)
  instead.

* Using a [`PauliList`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.PauliList) in
  `Estimator` observable arguments is no longer allowed. Instead you should
  explicitly convert the argument using
  [`SparsePauliOp(pauli_list)`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.quantum_info.SparsePauliOp)
  first.

<span id="qiskit.providers"></span>
## qiskit.providers

<span id="providers.basicaer"></span>
### basicaer

Most of the functionality in the `qiskit.providers.basicaer` module has been
replaced with the new
[`qiskit.providers.basic_provider`](/api/qiskit/providers_basic_provider)
module, except for the `UnitarySimulatorPy` and `StatevectorSimulatorPy`

> classes which have been removed; their functionality was already contained in

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
classes, which have been removed; their functionality was already contained in
```

    Instead, the provider class must be imported from its submodule and instantiated by the user:

    ```python
    # Old
    from qiskit import BasicAer
    backend = BasicAer.get_backend("backend_name")

    # Alternative
    from qiskit.providers.basic_provider import BasicProvider
    backend = BasicProvider().get_backend("backend_name")
    ```
</Admonition>

> As for the unitary and statevector simulators, they can be replaced with
> different [`quantum_info`](/api/qiskit/quantum_info) classes. This is not a

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The unitary and statevector simulators can be replaced with
different [`quantum_info`](/api/qiskit/quantum_info) classes. This is not a
```

> drop-in replacement, but the changes are minimal, see the following migration

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
drop-in replacement, but the changes are minimal. See the following migration
```

```python
from qiskit import pulse, qpy

with pulse.build() as schedule:
    pulse.play(pulse.Gaussian(100, 0.1, 25), pulse.DriveChannel(0))

with open('schedule.qpy', 'wb') as fd:
    qpy.dump(schedule, fd)
```

Removed                          |   Alternative
---------------------------------|--------------------------------------------
`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.ParametricPulse` | [`qiskit.pulse.SymbolicPulse`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.SymbolicPulse)
`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Constant` |  [`pulse.library.symbolic_pulses.Constant`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Constant_class.rst)
`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Drag` |  [`pulse.library.symbolic_pulses.Drag`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Drag_class.rst)
`pulse.library.parametric_pulses.Gaussian` |  [`pulse.library.symbolic_pulses.Gaussian`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.Gaussian_class.rst)
`qiskit.pulse.library.parametric_pulses.GaussianSquare` |  [`pulse.library.symbolic_pulses.GaussianSquare`](/api/qiskit/qiskit.pulse.library.GaussianSquare)

<span id="complex-val-amp"></span>
### Complex-valued amplitude

Complex-valued pulse amplitude (`amp`) is replaced with a (`amp`,

> `angle`) duo. This representation is more intuitive especially for some
> calibration tasks such as angle calibration:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`angle`) duo. This representation is more intuitive, especially for some
calibration tasks such as angle calibration:
```

```python
from qiskit import pulse
from qiskit.circuit import Parameter
from math import pi

with pulse.build() as schedule:
    angle = Parameter("θ")
    pulse.play(pulse.Gaussian(100, 0.1, 25, angle=angle), pulse.DriveChannel(0))
schedule.assign_parameters({angle: pi})
```

<span id="injecting-circuit-gate-operations"></span>
### Injecting circuit gate operations

Injecting circuit gate operations into the pulse builder context through
[`qiskit.pulse.builder.call`](/api/qiskit/pulse#call) is no longer possible.

> This removal affects input arguments of type `QuantumCircuit` as well as the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This removal affects input arguments of type `QuantumCircuit`, as well as the
```
